Now, let us see how this concept of wave interference can be applied to the special case of the double
slit experiment.
This is very important because this is something we will consider frequently.
Double slit experiment is almost ubiquitous in the discussion of quantum physics, quantum mechanics,
quantum phenomena.
Here we start with a brief introduction, please consider that this is one of the few lectures that
indulge a bit into a mathematical description because it is necessary to state clearly what happens
with the interference phenomena of waves.
And if you are no longer acquainted with them, midscale trigonometric functions, exponents and square
roots, please refer to the appendix video where these simple concepts are elucidated and applied to
the description of waves.
So what you see here is just a historical sketch of young man made by Young who depicted the interference
phenomenon of light with these two little slits A and B, which diffract an incoming wavefront, and
from which then two circular wavefront emerge and interfere on a screen according to their faces.
In these positions, level C, D, E and F.
But let us see in more detail and through a bit more technical description what really happens here.
The experimental set up of young stubbles, little experiment is that of a wavefront which comes from
the left side here in this picture and is directed at two small slits like shown here in general, such
a wavefront could be a water or light wave or a sound wavefront, etc.
Interference phenomena are a common characteristic of any kind of waves, not only of electromagnetic
waves.
Ideally, one should use a highly monochromatic source of light like that of a laser in order to obtain
a single wavelength front, which makes also the interior interference fringes more clear and more clearly
visible.
Of course, this was still not feasible at the time of Young.
He just used a candle.
And with optical filters, it is possible nevertheless to obtain interference injuries, even if they
appear in several colors in the bits smeared on on on the screen.
The slits are small, small slits means that these have a size which is about that of the wavelength
of the incoming wave.
Because it's the incoming wave would have a much larger wave length than the size of the slits.
It would simply bounce back or is absorbed by the walls as if there would be no slits or pinholes at
all.
If on the other side, the wavelength of the incoming wave would be much smaller than the slits, then
it would go simply through experience without experiencing almost no diffraction.
But if the wave length of the wave is comparable with as little size, then we will observe a situation
like that shown here.
After the Blitz Aperture and because of the distraction of the transverse plane, wavefront, two outgoing
concentric wave fronts form.
In a three dimensional volume, this would be a pair of spherical wavefront.
Diffraction is characteristic of every wave phenomena, and of course, whenever a wave encounters an
obstacle of a size comparable to its wavelength, you may have experienced this also in your daily life.
If you look at a source of light from the edges of an object, from a taspinar angle, for example,
or through a tiny pinhole, you will see how the contour, the linear lineaments of the figure of the
object, uh, get a bit distorted and smeared.
Every time light passes by an edge or a little aperture of comparable size of its wavelength, it gets
refracted.
That is deflected and deformed.
Notice also how the two outcoming waves have an intensity which has an angular dependence, more intense
heat on than seen from the sides.
These travel forward in the in the direction of the screen where they will interfere.
Now, the phase difference between the two waves, that one coming from one slit and the other from
the other slit is determined by the length difference of the two lines traced from the two slits as
one and s to eat meat at point B.
To the students who do not know what the phrase difference between two waves is and means, I recommend
again the appendix.
In fact, it is the difference in the path that the two waves experienced in reaching the screen at
that point, which is responsible for the interference phenomenon.
This will form the characteristic interference fringes along the detection screen that is along the
vertical axis direction.
It is this phase difference which varies along the detection screen, which determines if we will have
constructive or destructive interference or something in between, the bright bands are, of course,
the places where we have constructive interference, whereas the darker lines represent the destructive
ones.
Over all the interference pattern depends on the wavelength of the light, the Slits purchases, their
separation and the distance between the slits and the screen, so there are more parameters that play.
Together to form a final image on the screen.
Notice that the interference, of course, everywhere, not just on the screen, the screen serves only
the purpose to detect it and make it visible just there.
But waves overlap, overlap some or subtract each other everywhere as shown in the picture here.
So now let us put this into a bit more rigorous mathematical setting in the case of the double's, let
the two light beams emerging from the respective slits can be described by the two waves, say one of
X, MSRA of X, again, the temporal.
Dimension is ignored here.
The angular distribution of the light signal on the detection screen is given by some angle data.
Yeah, that is the angle between a horizontal line centered between the two slits and that connecting
some point up on the detection screen.
We assume the two slits as one and as two.
I had the same aperture and shape and therefore the two emerging ways have also the same angular intensity.
Again, the intensity depends on the angle.
However, the two waves will reach the detection screen in P along to path, having different length
L1 and L2.
This is because the distance L1 travelled by the waves, one from S1 to P will in general be different
than the distance.
L2 travelled by wave cyto from S2 to the same point p.
Therefore, even though the two waves have exactly the same wavelength lambda and exactly the same amplitude,
let's call it side zero, they nevertheless reach an observer in point B along along two different path.
With phase five, one and two, that since they have to travel along two different routes path, they
will have a relative phase, the relative phase difference that the fee is just given by the models
of five to minus five one, the different the phase difference between the two waves and will be determined
by the absolute length difference of the two pairs, respectively.
The delta will equal the absolute value L2 minus L1 and which.
Ultimately depends on the position of point pee on the screen.
Along the vertical axis or equivalently, equivalently by the detection angle teta.
This is a major point that has to be considered accurately and that will we will encounter repeatedly.
Now, if one calculates the complex squared modules again, go to the appendix because we know that
every wave can be represented by a complex valued function in X and T, he only X.
And so one X is a complex valued function.
Two is also a complex value function, which depends from X, which means from the position along the
to path L1 and having length L1 and L2.
And these are just so to speak, complex values, seen sinus and cosiness functions that oscillate.
Up and down accordingly to the position X.
So if one calculates the complex squared modulus and we know that the complex squared modulus of a wave
gives us the intensity, which is what we, after all, need to know, because what we want to measure
on the screen is the intensity of that we see with our eyes or with a photographic plate or with a camera
or whatever that is.
Finally, what we want to have if we one calculate the complex squared models, that is the overall
intensity appearing on the screen and taking into account the face difference between the two interfering
waves in P independence of the detection angle.
Theta one gets the following following result.
The proof is a bit cumbersome and would go beyond the scope of this introductory approach.
And we want illustrated here.
But just so that you get an idea, intuitive idea, how these two how these these two waves interfere.
Constructability or destructively, it is appropriate, I believe, to show at least the final result
and what you get here is the squared modulus of Siwan X plus two X is equal again.
So one X squared, model squared plus side two X squared plus plus another.
Term, which is two times the real part of the complex conjugate of, say, one.
Was a star symbol of X times two X, so it is not necessary to know everything what this means if you
don't see this, it is I illustrate this for those who have a little bit of a notion of complex functions
and complex calculus.
But the final result is that this term here, try one X squared is just the intensity of the first beam.
Let's call them beams beam one has intensity I one of which is given by just the squared modulus of
X, the squared model two to X is the intensity of beam two, which is the other two intensities that
come out from the two slits.
But what we see at the screen at point B is the resultant interference signal on the screen, which
with three turns the.
I already mentioned to wave squared models plus twice the real part of the product of the two wavefunction,
one conjugate wavefunction times the other one.
So there is also the third term, the third term that emerges emerges from the calculation and which
makes it clear how in general the intensity at point at a point in space resulting from the two interfering
waves is not the sum of their intensities.
This because they're the third extra term, is the so-called interference term, according to the values
Delta fee of the relative Festschrift shift between the two beams, one has constructive interference,
interference term is positive when that fee is an even multiple of two PI and adds up or.
Destructive interference when Delta V is an odd multiple of P and subtracts, it is this interference
term which modulates the intensity of the signal according to the observation angle along the screen.
Or in other words, if we move a detector that measures the intensity along the extraction, at each
point the intensity will oscillate up and down according to the peaks and valleys of the cosine Delta
function.
Which adds when positive or subtracts when negative and amount of two times the square root of I one
times I too from the term I won plus I to.
Taking a photograph, say, with the CCD camera, each pixel will display a fixed signal intensity twice
the intensity of the single slits light pin plus or minus an intensity which changes along the vertical
axis.
Maximum intensity and minimum intensity appeared due to constructive or destructive interference, respectively.
But the wide interference fringes on a black background or displaying it in a more somewhat more technical
manner.
It's mathematical reconstruction is usually depicted with a curve like the red function graph here.
Whereas and this is an important point to remember, the intensity of the fringes decreases with the
anger because of the anger dependents of the two outcoming beams, as we have described previously.
So finally, the important point that we have to understand is why and how we can discern between a
wave and a particle, a wave will always show up with interferons phenomenon in the double slit.
Experiment is the most classical device, the classical and the most classical experiment, which makes
this clear.
Newton firmly believed that light is made of particles made up of particles.
But later, when in 18 or one young made this double slit experiment as many other experimental facts
showing interference phenomena suggest also at all these experiments showed.
Unequivocally, that light behaves like a wave if light is made of particles, interference could not
become visible.
We can speak of interference of waves, but there is no meaning in saying that to point like particles
interfere with each other from the standpoint of classical physics and that of our everyday experience,
it would make even less sense to speak of a single particle traversing, going through both slits at
the same time and then even interfering with itself like a wave.
Once it hits a screen.
Or does it have a meaning?
This is the great question.
We shall see how subtotal nature can be and to conclude this lecture.
Finally, here are some examples, some other images which illustrate the interference phenomena.
This one is an image of a double slit experiment made with laser light.
Since the laser light is highly monochromatic and can be much more intense than the light of a candle,
you see much more fringes appear.
You can see here do not appear just two or three, four inches, but a dozen on each side.
This instead is an analogous situation, then the double slit experiment.
And that shows how the interference between two point sources looks like these are just two WAF points
sources on a plane, as you can see also here, naturally, the maxima and minima into interference
fringes appear.
This image reminds us that exactly the same phenomenon can be observed in waterways, there is in principle
no logical reason to believe that the double slit experiment can be performed with water waves or sound
waves or any form of other waves like pressure waves also and so on.
Interference, therefore, must be understood at as a universal property of whatever kind of waves.
And in these in this in this last image, you can see how also bees seem to know something about it
and enjoy playing around with similar experiments as we like to do it.
So the takeaway message is that interference is a universal and very common phenomenon of the physical
reality and that we must have clearly in mind.
It is something which is not characteristic of quantum physics only, but at any rate, it will turn
out to be something which describes the quantum world very well, as we will see next.